---
layout: post
title: Pilot
date: 2018-07-29 11:03 -0400
author: Dmitriy
---

Surrounding a weekend of skiing, music, and amazing food, two software engineers spent 10 hours in a car sharing ideas. The conversations were filled with asides and tangents and ultimately (d)evolved into a discussion of which ideas were worth talking about and how we should be talking about them. 

The outcome of that discussion was an understanding that we are more ready to share thoughts with other people when we are sure that we won't be judged poorly for having them. In this case, one wouldn't be judged for the topic of their thought but more for the level of it's developement. A poorly definded thought may seem like nonsense or might easily break down at the first counter argument.

So in the interest of not being made fun of, we might not share our least defined ideas with anyone. We might share slightly better defined ideas with only our close friends or family, with hope that they will help us develop them further. Continuing with this progression, it would take a lot to be comfortable sharing ideas at a large scale. In some cases, a developed thought starts seeming obvious and not worth writing about. In other cases, the thought might never seem good enough to post for a large group to read.

Having gone through some examples, it became obvious to them that there are plenty of diamonds in the rough of ideas that we will never share. Realizing that, it became logical that we should share as many ideas as are developed enough to simply write down. Moreover, we should share them with the biggest audience possible in the interest of growing them to their full potential. Being that the internet is probably the biggest potential audience one can have, a blog seemed like the clear choice. And with that spark, the idea for this blog was born! The car ride ended, the skis were put away, and Monday morning sprint planning relegated it all to the back of the backlog. 

<h4>Several months later...</h4> 

The same two software engineers stepped out of their office to get some coffee and started discussing a half baked thought that one of them had the night before. Suddenly, they both remembered that this was exactly the kind of thing they were going to blog about, but alas no blog existed. They thought about a simple Wordpress blog, but the frontend guy became very upset at the idea. They thought about simply posting to Medium, but the backend guy wanted to do it the hard way and host a blog himself. 

Hosting location aside, the blog needed a name. The plan was to write about any idea they had about life, but also leave it open for professional ideas about software developement. Suddenly the name became obvious; the blog would contain thoughts at any level of developement, some of which would be about software developement. Their coffee cups empty, mind blown gestures exchanged, and with the excitement of a plan coming together in their eyes, they went back to work. The rest, as they say, is in the [archives](/archives).
