---
layout: post
title: A Good Day
date: 2018-08-11 10:54 -0400
author: Yan
excerpt: Today was a good day. I thought I’d write down what made it work, and how simple it all was. It’s a cold Saturday in December. I didn’t quite get enough sleep but I was close...
---

<h4>Notes</h4>

- All of the names of people in this story have been changed.
- I wrote this down all at once, before this blog existed, and edited it lightly about 8 months later when I decided I was going to publish it.

<h4>December 16</h4>

Today was a good day. I thought I’d write down what made it work, and how simple it all was. It’s a cold Saturday in December. I didn’t quite get enough sleep but I was close; Anna stayed over and we didn’t close our eyes until about 4am. We slept comfortably though, and when the alarm rang at 10am, we had been awake for a few minutes. She had a bus to catch from the Port Authority, and I had a doctor’s appointment at 12pm, which gave us about two hours. 

I made it to the appointment only five minutes late. Dr. Jones said hello from behind the receptionist’s desk and that he’d be with me soon. I didn’t get a chance to go to the bathroom at home so the delay was welcome. The results were all good except for the minor setback of having the virus for cold sores, but it seems that almost every adult in the US has it. Otherwise, my cholesterol and related markers were far better than average, so my prior subpar screening has begun to seem like a fluke.

The next step was to eat a hearty meal. The migas at Sidecar were perfect, with a salad and a side of beef sausage. I drank only water at the bar and left a decent tip. There’s always a great vibe to the place, whether or having a Jesuit (my favorite cocktail) a glass of red, or keeping it non-alcoholic. 

My next stop was Roots Cafe. I had asked the owner, to hold a painting for me; it caught my eye about a month ago and I wanted to buy it but forgot to come back in time. She rightly let it go after a couple of days, and when I popped back in, told me I could commission the artist to do one more if I still wanted it. Today I brought $90 with me, and she said I’d have the painting some time in January. “Totally cool, it’s not a holiday gift.” Owner: “Oh good!”

I got a cup of coffee and settled into a comfortable spot, but not really a comfortable chair. It was pretty grey and cold outside, and the warm feeling of the cafe provided a pleasant contrast. I took out my laptop and slowly got into a rhythm writing code for work. I later thought about why this felt so good and came up an idea centered around anxiety.

On the weekend, I’m not expected to put in any time for work. So if I’m working then I must be enjoying it. On the weekdays, I’m in a place that’s meant for me to work. I have a standing desk, two monitors, snacks and coffee, and access to my co-workers. But the feeling I get when time begins to slip away during a workday can be described as anxiety, or some days, even dread.

It felt good to work, even as a struggled through the problem I was solving. I could have switched to any number of distractions at any point - I was in a coffee shop and no one was really looking at my screen. Somehow I didn’t… Instead I enjoyed the struggle, thought about the reason that the problem was difficult, and began to successfully break it down. Eventually I got it to a pretty good state, and started seeing diminishing returns. It was 3:52, and the owner mercifully reminded everyone still there that the cafe was closing at 4. She left us with some warm, encouraging words and I had the sensation that I was somewhere special. But I had been there so many times before… What was different?

I got home a few minutes after 4pm and said hello to the cat (I always do whether she’s meowing at me for food or still feeling the effects of a nap). The next few hours passed as the late afternoon hours often do on a weekend, filled with things like random internet browsing and apartment cleaning, but with some interesting additions. First I started looking up pianos as I have been for a while. I knew I wanted the Roland RD-2000 but was thinking about getting a holiday deal. There were none, and I had still dragged my feet on this purchase for months. Today, I clicked “Buy” and got it along with a keyboard stand and a music stand. This got me thinking about the empty room where I was going to put all this, so I thought I should clean it. This led me to think that I should really prioritize cleaning the bathroom if I’m going to clean anything... and at this point, the dread came.

It’s interesting… on the weekend I guess I expect to clean. Thinking about the task that I am expected to do at the time that I’m expected to do it causes me dread. Well… If that’s not a good definition of procrastination, then I don’t know what is. I sat at the laptop, and maybe watched an episode of The Office. I also called my Dad and talked about the new phones they were going to buy. We were productive, deciding to meet at a store on Monday so he could try them out in person. With all this behind me I still couldn’t get into the right mindset, or to act, or to feel good about the day on any emotional level. This is when I turned to my voice.

No one was home, and the cat was pretty calm, alternating between a couple of nap locations on the couch behind me. I was at my laptop and nothing was happening but I had chrome tabs open - anxiety. Before it could turn to dread I covered my eyes with my hands and spoke out loud. I knew that I should have recorded it or taken notes, but I also knew that it would have ruined it.

It was a focused stream of thoughts. One at a time, kind of slow, but not stopping at any point. I’d say a sentence and then pause. I might say two sentences in a row, pause for shorter or longer, but generally that was the rhythm. It was addressing these feelings and where they come from. I wanted to hear myself and began to really enjoy the sound of my voice. I was also somehow free of any need to be profound. No one was listening, except I really was listening to myself. My thoughts were sufficient and they were much more useful to me coming through my ears than coming through from my mind directly.

Eventually I got up and went to clean the spare room. Again, I slowly got into a rhythm. There was no thought of optimizing my process. I had headphones on and was sweeping up the debris from the abused cat post, and generally getting the room in order. Once I made it to the living room I began to pick up chairs and move things aside so that I could really clean. I naturally got to the bathroom, and for the first time in a long time really cleaned it. I was worried about the chemical fumes, but the fan was on and I could leave at any time. I had to keep the door closed so that the cat wouldn’t come in and get sick. It took a while, and I kept finding new spots to clean. So what, I kept going. All of these potential obstacles, and I didn’t have to care. The album I was listening to was long over and I was just wearing my headphones for silence. There was still no one home.

I got finished cleaning. I’m now remembering that I had done laundry as my first order of business when I got home after 4pm, so I felt good about all the order around me. I texted a bit with Sam, thinking he might come over, but he had a family thing. Well, I ordered sushi, ate it, and watched The Office. All good things. He hasn’t answered but I assume he’ll see my text about coffee tomorrow morning in time. In any case I’ll be here and ready if he decides to come.

I didn’t play any music. I didn’t really work out unless you count the workout I got with Anna or the bit of activity I got walking around and cleaning. I probably didn’t “check everything off the list” but I had a good day. Why? I’m writing now to understand because I so desperately want this to be the norm.

I remember now that what I was saying to myself earlier had been about focus. “I enjoy being focused, that’s all.” Whatever it is I do, I want to be focused on it. The results of my actions matter, but what I’ve understood is that over the long term, the state of being focused is more important to me than my achievements.


